And as men, we've got to look for ways for us to bond together and to be able to do that.
So our final charge, Matthew chapter 24, verse 14 says, in this gospel of the kingdom shall be preached in all the world as a witness and then shall the end come.
And this gospel of the kingdom shall be preached in all the world for a witness and then shall the end come.
So we'll do our final charge.
Father God, we thank you for this opportunity to study a word.
We thank you for your
Your love, Lord, your kindness, and for the opportunity to fellowship with brethren today like we did, it has really just been such a blessing, Lord, our hearts are overflowing.
Lord, we want to leave with a word from you.
This is our prayer in Jesus' name.
Amen.
So the Apostle Paul clearly understood sports.
A lot of Adventists don't like sports.
I get that.
But clearly Paul understood sports.
He writes about sports.
And the sporting event of his day was the Olympics.
And what would happen in the Greek Olympics is that they would, as a young man, you could go to Athens to the Olympics, represent your village, and you could go there and win a prize.
They had a few things.
They had wrestling, Greco-Roman wrestling to this day.
They had boxing.
They had sprinting.
They'd race each other.
What else?
They had a marathon.
That was the 26th year.
That's what a marathon comes from.
So they had these events.
And if you won, you went home to your village a hero.
So young men, like today, they would train for years to be able to go to the Olympics.
The Apostle Paul understood that.
It was a huge thing.
It was a major focus.
And so he writes in 1 Corinthians chapter 9 and verse 24, he writes, know ye that, know ye not that they would run in a race, run all.
How many of them run?
Everybody that lines up in a race is running to win the race.
He says, but only one of them receives the prize.
He says, so run that you may obtain.
Here's what he's saying.
Do not run the Christian race haphazardly.
Don't run the Christian race like you really don't want to win.
Don't line up and get in, set in the blocks and get in position.
And when the gun goes off, you just mosey and along to the finish line like you ain't got no sense.
Paul says, take the race
the Christian race seriously.
On judgment day, when we stand before God, he's gonna look at us and we can say, Lord, you know what, I didn't run the race that well.
He said, why didn't you?
Everything you needed to run this race and win this race, I gave it to you.
You say, no, Lord, I didn't have this in this.
He'll hold up his nail scarred hands.
Let's go verse 25.
And every man that strives for the mastery is temperate in all things.
Now they do it to obtain a corruptible crown, but we an incorruptible.
These temperate, meaning they're self-controlled.
That means they don't do things other people do.
They don't go places other people go.
They don't wear things other people wear.
They don't eat or drink things other people eat their temperate.
My cousin, I mentioned my cousin Sean Taylor.
Sean, when we were little kids, and I'm older than Sean, but when Sean was like,
seven or eight six seven eight years old Sean would actually climb up on the side of the couch he'd be on the arm of the couch and as you walk by he would jump off the couch and try and tackle you he did something about it he just liked to hit people from he was a little kid so his parents at both at Venice they weren't together but he were both at Venice and so he would go to he was going to church
his father realized how good he was in father and p his father was also the the uh... chief of police for florida city florida p pulled him out would take him from church to play pop water football in miami and charmed was like a man among boys it was crazy i never want this game there are seven but they come back and say this guy scored four touchdown five times he had half the tackles i mean he was just
a man among boys as it looked like from pop Warner days, right?
Now, what was interesting about him is he went on and he played for one of the public high schools before he got drafted over to play in a private high school, right?
And the private high school is the same private high school where Madonna sent her kids.
So it's Gulliver Prep, you can look it up, really elite high school.
They won their first state championship with Sean Taylor playing both ways, Ironman football.
They won their first state championship.
It went crazy.
What I learned from Sean, and I have another cousin who played in the NFL, my cousin Keith Rieser.
He played for San Francisco, and he won a football, actually, with Patrick Mahomes in Kansas City.
What I learned from watching Sean is he was temperate.
His father would take him outside, but he was just, you know, middle school, and he would have him running up and down the street.
He has a revelation chapter three, and I think it's verse 11.
Speaking to one of the churches, Jesus actually says, be careful lest another man take your crown.
Oh, there it is.
Your crown exists, but somebody else can take it.
I want you to run the race understanding you want it already.
The job is to submit to the one who gives you strength to win the race.
You can't run the race and think you are the one running.
You've got to understand that the wind that is pushing you forward is the wind of the glory of God.
Now, I want to give a little bit more info on my cousin, because it fits into this.
So Sean was doing very well.
Many of you know he got recruited first, but a University of Miami in Florida, my alma mater.
And they won a national championship his first year at a Rose Bowl up in Pasadena.
And within a year or two, I forgot many years now.
He left football.
I remember him asking me one off season.
He's like, Ricky, he'll answer my family.
He said, I should stay in college or should I go?
And I was like,
Most of us go to college to get a job.
I said, you got a really good job.
So I would probably go get the money while you were still young enough to go get it.
Sure enough, he came out early out of college.
And some of you might remember if you die hard Redskins fans.
He went number five in the NFL draft.
Do you remember that?
He signed a $36 million contract when he came out of college.
His agent was Drew Rosenhouse, y'all remember him, he's the one they made the movie show me the money, I wasn't even in that movie again, Derek Maguire, he's the one who made, that's what that movie is about, I sat, I actually met him, I was able to meet him, but Sean signed that there's, and one of the things that was interesting is you signed a $36 million contract, people change, your family will change, everything changes, people see you as a resource,
more than anything else.
$36 million kind of came to the Washington Redskins and was doing well.
And you guys that really follow football remember he got in trouble.
Remember somebody stole, he was an outdoors guy, was an outdoorsman.
Fisherman, he didn't really hunt but he fished and he loved to go out into the Everglades in Florida on his four wheel ATV Banshees I think they call them.
I don't really mess with that kind of stuff.
But he was out in the Everglades all the time on him.
And the mistake he made is he took the Banshees and left them at one of our friends' houses back in our old neighborhood, which was a big mistake.
It wasn't a very good neighborhood, Perrine in Miami, right?
And so some of the dudes from the hood stole his Banshees.
I think it was four of them, at least two or three of them, but I think it was four of them.
Stolen Banshees and Sean, being Sean, Sean did not take shorts.
He's not the kind of dude you mess around with.
So he took his gun and went to the dude's houses in the hood, drew his gun, and at gunpoint got back all of his stolen stuff.
Now, what do you think the guys did?
They called the police.
They snitched.
They broke every rule of the hood, right?
First thing they did was stitch.
So they called the police because they knew who he was.
Again, he didn't realize it.
He didn't realize.
When you saw a $36 million contract, you didn't even see it.
He was supposed to drive through the hood no more.
You need to stay where you stay because you are liability.
You're vulnerable.
They call the police.
Sean gets in trouble.
Some of y'all remember this.
And Sean was all in the news.
They were painting him as this bad person.
They were calling him all this kind of stuff.
And my grandmother, my Jamaican grandmother from Betheltown, Jamaica, prayed him out of this mess.
But he had to give up his guns.
His dogs were getting loose.
He had to give up his dogs.
And so he had this really nice house by now.
And in that off season, after all that happened, his girlfriend had had a baby.
And Sean quickly began to change.
In fact, this is a picture from when I saw him at one of our cousin's baby showers.
We were at a cousin, one of my cousin's baby showers.
And Sean and I were talking.
And just before they took this picture, we were talking, and Sean told me, Sean, turn to me, and he said, I'm tired of the NFL.
He said, Rick, you don't really understand.
He said, the owners don't really care for the fans.
They don't really care for the players.
It's just a business, he said.
He said, as soon as this is over, he said, I'm going back to church.
I was like, whoa.
He said, I'm going back to church.
And in that off season, he actually went to church.
And when the appeal was made, he came down front.
Now, somebody allowed, I won't say who, somebody allowed some people into the house that they shouldn't have.
And he was away in Virginia, here in Virginia, you know, in training camp or whatever, you know, in the football season, early in the football season.
And these guys were invited over to his house, should never have been in his house.
I wanted to it.
And when they looked around, they saw his jewelry laying around.
They saw his game checks laying around.
Sean was just that type of dude.
None of that stuff really mattered to him.
So all this stuff was just laying around, and they said, well, we'll just wait till he's not home.
We'll break into the house.
And we can steal all this stuff.
It's the easiest money we'll ever make.
There came from the other side of the state.
Sean didn't even know these dudes, really.
I mean, one of them, they said he actually did help out, actually, one time, because these boys knew some people we knew.
Anyway, Sean, the Redskins played the Tampa Bay Buccaneers in Tampa.
And Sean had heard his name.
After that off season, that way he was doing really well.
Lots of tackles, interceptions.
He was having a stellar season.
But he hurt his knee, so he was in Tampa, and he asked the coach, who was the coach then again?
Was it Gibbs?
Gibbs, yeah.
So he asked Gibbs could he go, so he said he had to go home.
So Sean went back to Miami from Tampa, a short little trip, check him on his fishing boat, because he loved the fish, check him on his car, check him on his house, you know, visit some relatives, hang out with a baby and his girlfriend, you know, with the families,
And while they were sleeping in the house, those boys came back for the stuff.
Four of them.
They drove all the way from the other coast of the state of Florida.
And Sean, you know, they didn't have an alarm on his house.
You were $36 million.
You should have Ironman alarm on your house.
Right?
Dogs, everything.
Cameras, everything.
And so the dudes went around the back of the house and came in through the back window of the bathroom.
Sean heard them coming in, being the child of Jamaicans.
He drew out a machete because he had no gun no more.
Went with his cut list and went outside.
One of the two boys that went in, from what we understand, only one of them had a gun.
And he probably, I don't know what the boy really wanted to do what he did in a final analysis.
He shot, and it seems like he shot at Sean's leg, hit him in the left thigh.
The problem is the bullet went through Sean's femoral artery.
That's the biggest, you know, anatomy.
It's the biggest artery of the lower extremities.
Sean is a world-class athlete.
His adrenaline is running.
His heart is pumping super fast.
He is pushing blood out of that artery at a rapid, rapid pace.
His father told me later on that he thinks all of Sean's blood was left at the house.
His girlfriend and the baby are hiding in the closet.
She hears the gunshot.
So, of course, she doesn't come out because, you know, who was the risk of the baby getting shot.
So she stays in the closet, and when she finally does come out and call 911, he's laying there unconscious in a giant pool of blood.
They rush him to the University of Miami Hospital Jackson Memorial, right at Trauma Center.
They give him $60,000 worth of albumin, a protein to keep the blood in his vessels, pump of albumin fluid,
And Sean is laying there in the whole world, CNN, ESPN.
I'm watching it from Cali.
I'm in Loma Linda working.
I'm watching my family.
I'm watching my cousins come and go from the hospital.
ESPN and CNN give updates.
Sitting at the hospital, worried about my family, praying.
I've never forget my brother called me that night.
When Sean was shot, it was like 10 o'clock at night on the West Coast.
And he says, Sean has been shot.
I said, how does it look?
And he was like, not good.
I remember falling on my knees in my house in California and begging God to let him live because we already lost so many family members to murder and unnecessary deaths.
Sean is laying there now.
My Jamaican grandmother comes on the scene.
She comes in and she sits next to him as they wouldn't even take him out of the operating room because it was a VIP.
It was like the safest place to leave him.
So he's laying in there, they're giving him fluids, they're doing everything, they're monitoring him.
My grandmother takes the chair, pulls up next to the bed, sits where her face is right next to his ear, and she begins to hum and sing.
She then begins to recite words.
She's talking to him, then she'll go back into song.
This goes on for hours.
My brother says, he talks to my grandmother, we call her mama.
My brother says, mama, do you want to go home?
I can take you home to shower and change and come back.
Mama's like, nah, I'm not going home.
She stays there singing, praying, everything.
Two days, two and a half days into this.
He's still there trying to recover.
My grandmother's sitting there.
And my grandmother, the key is, we were all raised in broken homes and stuff.
So the one repository for all of us was my grandmother's house.
Like when my mother wanted to get rid of all three of us boys, we all went to my grandmother's house, right?
So we all, she part raised all of us.
So she's there doing that.
My brother is like, she's not moving.
She won't go anywhere.
Finally, two and a half days in, the doctor and the nurse walk in.
When the doctor and the nurse walk in, the doctor says to the nurse, hold his hand.
The nurse grabs my cousin's hand.
And the doctor says, Shawn, if you can hear me, squeeze her hand.
And he squeezes.
The doctor says, Shawn, if you can hear me, blink.
And he blinks his eyes.
The nurse looks at the nurse, the nurse looks at the doctor, they shrug his shoulders, and they walk off.
When they walk out of the room, my grandmother gets up, turns to my brother and says, OK, I'm ready to go shower now.
My brother said, what do you mean?
Like, it seems like stuff is happening.
She said, no, no, it's time to go.
Let me go shower.
She goes to shower.
I'm watching a news in California.
My brother tells me what's happened.
I'm watching news in California, ESPN, CNN.
Sean Taylor responds to doctors.
We think he might make a recovery.
Everyone's hopes are up.
My brother's like, he doesn't look good.
I don't know how this going to happen.
And everybody, you know, the news is saying it's going to happen within a day, day and a half.
I remember how hours it was.
He dies.
I go, I fly down for the funeral, but one of my sons, we fly down to the funeral, and I make a beeline for my grandmother.
I say, mama, this doesn't make sense.
You were praying, praying for him, there with him, and as soon as he seemed like he was going to get better, you went home.
She said, listen, I was there with him for all those days, all those hours.
She said, I was reteaching him.
the Sabbath school lessons.
I used to teach him when he was a child.
He was an acquirer, he was a pathfinder, Sean Taylor, all that.
He was singing in his ear, the songs used to sing him as a little boy for worship on Friday evening.
She was reciting Bible verses and Bible promises and teach and reminding him of what the gospel teaches.
She said, but Ricky, I started to get tired.
I was dirty.
I was hungry.
I wanted to go home.
So I prayed.
I said, God, if he can hear me, show me that he can hear me.
She said, when she prayed that prayer, the doctor and the nurse walked in.
She said, once I knew he could hear me, I knew my work was done.
She said, it was time to go home and prepare for his funeral.
We tell you something.
At that funeral, it was a circus.
O.J.
Simpson was there.
Chad Ocho-Sinko, almost a whole entire Redskins organization.
Holy University of Miami's football apparatus was there.
Many other NFL players, because we grew up in a section of Miami, we grew up in a lot of football players come out of NFL players come out of that area.
And I'll never be in that to be in that funeral, and people politicizing his death and all of this.
This is his tombstone there in Miami.
Right near my mother's, right near my grandmother's, right near my grandfather's in my aunt's, all in one plot, they all are there in Kendall and Florida.
And I'll never forget, everybody was all into it until they weren't.
Finally, everybody trickled away and it was time for his body to go down into the ground.
And this thing to go on top of it.
By now, all the celebrities, all the other football players go on, there's just a few of us family members and a few of us friends from our neighborhood.
We were crying bitterly, not because he played for the Redskins, but because he wasn't coming back.
The Redskins, I said, when I give one of his talks for the funeral, I said the Redskins are going to have another safety next year.
I'm not going to have another cousin to take his place.
The Redskins are going to move on.
They did.
They even changed their name.
But what I want to tell you ties into everything I talked about today,
When it came time to bury him, his cars, BMW, all that, was still in the driveway at the house.
That big mansion of a house he bought for how much money?
It was still on his foundation.
That beautiful, amazingly massive fishing boat thing he had, still sitting there in the driveway.
His jewelry, all of it was 99% of it was still at the house.
Whatever of that $36 million went into his bank account,
still in the bank when Sean died and went into the grave the only thing he could take with him of any value is if he went down with Christ the only thing you get to take to heaven with you is your character
I'm so glad in and off season he took his stand when he had the opportunity.
I'm so glad that before he lost consciousness completely and forever, my grandmother was able to witness to him.
And my prayer is that one day when I receive my crown by God's grace, I get to see him receive his.
Men, what we are fighting for the race we are in, we do not run like other men run.
There's a crown waiting for us.
So we beat down our body and bring it into subjection.
Let's after all that we've been through.
We should be called a cast away.
Men leave this place on fire for God.
What his brother said is so important.
Don't just go home to a men's ministry.
Go home and have a men's ministry that thrives.
Go home and ask yourselves, what can we do as men in this church so that the women are no longer the priests
The time of this talk was supposed to be King Priest or Coward.
Let's go home and be priests.
If you're married, be a priest in your home.
Let your instruction be the primary instruction about God your children get.
If you think a pastor's gonna raise your child to be Christian, you've already lost your child.
That has to happen at home.
Be a king to the queen your wife, for those of us who are married.
make sure that we treat them as Christ treats the church, the way he treats the church is the way we're supposed to treat our wife.
How many of us have that attitude with our wives?
And you know why he says he does it?
So he can present us a glorified church, Ephesians 5, 25, 26 and 27, without spot, without wrinkle, without any sort of blemish.
Let me tell you something.
is the reality all of us have to face.
We talk a lot about how soon Jesus is coming and we should.
But let me tell you something, I know for in fact, all of us are one day going to have to stand before the judgment seat of the living God.
Right now is when you prepare for that day because I want to be wearing the robe of Christ's righteousness when that happens.
When my name comes up in the judgment, I want the screen to go blood red as the universe looks at me and Jesus say,
He has been covered by my righteousness.
That's what you want.
Just stand with me as we close out in prayer.
This media was brought to you by Audioverse, a website dedicated to spreading God's word through free sermon audio and much more.
If you would like to know more about Audioverse, or if you would like to listen to more sermons, please visit www.audioverse.org.